The HYPER-AI Open Connectors are an open-source project designed to orchestrate and
manage edge devices using a Kubernetes-powered control plane. The intended purpose is to
implement an abstraction layer between a Kubernetes cluster and resources (Android OS
operated smartphones and AR glasses, Containers & Devices) not capable of joining the
cluster as native nodes (no support for executing any container runtime).
The Open Connectors are implemented to create an abstraction layer between the
Kubernetes cloud system and devices that cannot natively execute containers. The
connectors handle the self-advertising and registration (registering the advertised devices as
K8s custom resources), the network resources allocation, the network communications
required for delegating tasks to the devices (as being nodes of the cluster) and the monitoring
of the devices to retain the health of the cluster (as already done with the natively registered
K8s worker nodes).
The architecture supports:
• Device registration of self-advertised devices as DeviceNodes.
• Application submission and deployment (to a selected DeviceNode).
• Status tracking and ACK handling.
• Timeout management for reliability.
The Open Connectors implement the required controllers and communication connectors for
enabling devices not capable of joining a K8s cluster natively, as worker nodes in the cluster.
Hence, all nodes are considered as HYPER-AI nodes (following the Data Models implemented
on WP4, T4.3) and are categorized into two entities:
Figure 1:Abstraction Entities for Hyper-AI Nodes
12
HYPER-AI | GA: 101135982
The DeviceNode entity is the key descriptor for the edge devices. It is a vital abstraction entity
which is used for to correctly provision and delegate tasks to each edge device. The
DeviceNode entity consists of specific attributes that describe the edge device’s hardware
and software capabilities, including additional sensors operated by the device. The
connectors continuously provide each device’s state, resource metrics (e.g. CPU usage),
storage utilization, battery reserve, etc.
The Open Connectors are also responsible for establishing the required communication
between the cloud infrastructure, the K8s cluster, and the devices. The devices must maintain
communication channels towards the cluster. There are 2 main discrete modules that form
the connectors, the Device Controller and the Application Controller. It is important to note
that both controllers are directly communicating with the Kubernetes control plane and
therefore have elevated access to the cluster’s resources.
The Device Controller is responsible for registering, managing and monitoring every
DeviceNode, which in essence is an edge device. Each DeviceNode has a set of attributes that
describe its hardware and software capabilities, and attributes dedicated to describing the
state of each device. The Device Controller can register new edge devices as DeviceNodes
from the self-advertisement of each candidate device (e.g. smartphone, XR glasses). The
Device Controller evaluates the advertised device’s information and registers the device as a
DeviceNode to Kubernetes. The cluster understands this registration as a new object entry
inside the etcd (Etcd, 2020) k8s storage. The controller is also responsible for re-occurringly,
patching the DeviceNode’s status attributes with updated values received from each
corresponding edge device.
The Application Controller is responsible for keeping a record of user-submitted applications
targeted for the DeviceNodes. When an application is submitted to the HYPER-AI platform
and is intended for a DeviceNode, the Application Controller parses the attributes describing
the application (e.g. intended DeviceNode, OS specs, list of required sensors, etc.) and again
stores this information in the etcd database. This is mandatory as the scheduler can retrieve
this information and the application for scheduling. The controller also monitors the
deployment of the application and the execution status.
Each of the controllers implementation consists of the important functionality modules, one
for the actual Controller and the other is the Communication Connector. Both of them
combined are able to register new edge self-advertised devices as DeviceNodes. This entity is
considered as a cloud node, meaning that the specified edge device is set up to be scheduled
with tasks for execution and thus, can be considered a cloud node.
In the following Figure 2, we can see the whole implementation details and workflows for the
registration of devices as DeviceNodes and the scheduling of applications to the devices.
13
HYPER-AI | GA: 101135982
Figure 2: Open Connectors Overview
