The Open Connectors are a HYPER-AI cloud infrastructure component and is the outcome of
Task 4.2 which focuses on the interconnection and management of heterogeneous, multi-
modal entities. These entities consist of various computational, storage and network
capabilities which form a common Computing Continuum.
The Open Connectors implement a layer of abstraction between the cloud infrastructure and
multimodal and diverse edge devices. These edge devices may be (but not limited to)
smartphones, XR devices (such as augmented reality equipment, smart glasses) and other
devices or computational boards (e.g. Raspberry Pi, GPU-accelerated boards, etc.). These
devices do not only form a diverse device group but also combine different OS-bases operated
devices (e.g. Linux, Android, etc.). The Open Connectors abstract this multimodality and the
diverse characteristics of edge devices and enables the transparent management and
interoperability of these edge devices as cloud nodes.
The connectors are implemented to create an abstraction layer between the Kubernetes
(Kubernetes Documentation, 2025) cloud system and devices that cannot natively execute
containers. Therefore, these devices are excluded from being direct Kubernetes nodes and
are considered by the HYPER-AI cloud as allocatable resources. The abstraction layer aims to
describe these devices in a Kubernetes friendly annotation description to pass them as
Kubernetes nodes. The connectors handle the self-advertising and registration (registering
the advertised devices as K8s custom resources), the network resources allocation, the
network communications required for delegating tasks to the devices (as being nodes of the
cluster) and the monitoring of the devices to retain the health of the cluster (as already done
with the natively registered K8s worker nodes).
The above-mentioned layer of abstraction consists of multiple functionalities which form the
framework of the Open Connectors. This framework was deployed in various environments
to be developed and tested such as Minikube (Minikube, 2025). The Open Connectors are
considered as an internal component of the cloud infrastructure for managing edge devices
and schedule applications to these devices. Therefore, they are deployed as deployments and
await actions from the edge devices or the cloud users.
All functionalities are also described in a dedicated documentation, existing in the Eclipse
GitLab (GitLab Documentation, 2025) repository of the Open Connectors. The first official
release version of the connectors is 1.0.0 and implements all the key functionalities expected
from T4.2.
